Document new Roslyn Analyzer Rules for Wilson Token Validation (#25911)
dotnet/docs: docs/fundamentals/code-analysis/quality-rules/ca5404.md

ms.date: 09/01/2021
ms.topic: reference
ms.author: timhann
f1_keywords:
  - "CA5404"
---
# CA5404: Do not disable token validation checks

| | Value |
|-|-|
| **Rule ID** |CA5404|
| **Category** |[Security](security-warnings.md)|
| **Fix is breaking or non-breaking** |Non-breaking|

## Cause

Setting  <xref:Microsoft.IdentityModel.Tokens.TokenValidationParameters> properties `RequireExpirationTime`, `ValidateAudience`, `ValidateIssuer`, or `ValidateLifetime` to `false`.

## Rule description

Token validation checks ensure that while validating tokens, all aspects are analyzed and verified. Turning off validation can lead to security holes by allowing untrusted tokens to make it through validation.

More details about best practices for token validation can be found on the [library's wiki](https://aka.ms/wilson/tokenvalidation).

## How to fix violations

Set <xref:Microsoft.IdentityModel.Tokens.TokenValidationParameters> properties `RequireExpirationTime`, `ValidateAudience`, `ValidateIssuer`, or `ValidateLifetime` to `true`. Or, remove the assignment to `false` because the default value is `true`.

## When to suppress warnings

> While in the vast majority of cases, this validation is essential to ensure the security of the consuming app, there are some cases where this validation is not needed, especially in not standard token types. Before you disable this validation, be sure you have fully thought through the security implications. The [library's wiki](https://aka.ms/wilson/tokenvalidation) can prove useful when thinking about the tradeoffs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the vast majority of cases, this validation is essential to ensure the security of the consuming app. However, there are some cases where this validation is not needed, especially in non-standard token types. Before you disable this validation, be sure you have fully thought through the security implications. For information about the trade-offs, see the [token validation library's wiki](https://aka.ms/wilson/tokenvalidation).
```
